# Equipment_Management_System_LGED

The Equipment Management System software is a web-based online software which is specially designed in the perspective of a Government organization named Local Government Engineering Department (LGED). The main function of this software is to manage and automate the equipment renting system of LGED electronically. The software consists of two parts- the web portal and the admin panel. 
In web portal part, a contractor can be registered upon giving some information in the website. When the registration request is approved by the competent authority, request for requisition of equipment can be submitted by the contractor without going to any office physically. Afterwards, the status of his requisition request can be followed up from the dashboard. When an equipment is allotted against a contractor, the allotment letter stating the details of the equipment and the respective equipment driver/operator can be viewed and printed. Finally, the equipment can be returned through the system after use. Moreover, the history of requisitions made by a contractor can be viewed anytime using this system and the bill of hire charge can also be saved and printed.
In the admin panel part of the project, the registration request made by any contractor can either be approved or rejected by the respective Executive Engineer. When a requisition request is submitted by the contractor, it can be verified by the respective Upazila Engineer and is forwarded to the Executive Engineer of the respective district. Then the requisition request can be processed by the authorized user of the respective Executive Engineer’s office, an equipment can be assigned/proposed after viewing the current status of all equipment from the report section and is forwarded to the Executive Engineer for approval. After that, the requisition request can be approved or rejected by the Executive Engineer. If the requisition request is approved, the allotment letter will be auto-generated. When the equipment is returned by the contractor after use, it has to be restored by the competent authority as an acknowledgement that the equipment has been received in proper condition. As soon as the equipment is restored, the bill of hire charge will be generated automatically.
Different types of reports can be generated by the admin user as per requirement. For example, the current status of all the equipment that belongs to any district office; that means, whether an equipment is allotted or not; if allotted, where is its location, when it will be free and so on. Equipment usage history and revenue generation reports can also be generated against any contractor or for a specific road within a specific period of time.

